# Summary #

This paper utilizes capsule networks for the purpose of autonomous navigation
through simulated environments.

# Capsule Network Performance with Autonomous Navigation #

In this paper, available on [arxiv.org][2] ([2002.03181][1]), the authors
Molnar and Culurciello use capsule networks to do autonomous navigation in
simulated environments, and compare the performance to that of convolutional
networks. Such convolutional neural networks are unable by their internal data
representation struggle to maintain spatial hierarchies between simple and
complex objects. Whereas capsule networks, which encode their data as vectors,
can encode the probability of feature detection as the magnitude of the vector
and the state of the detected feature in the direction of the vector. So a
detected feature that moves around will have its associated vector maintain the
same magnitude throughout the movement but alter their vector’s
orientation. Via dynamic routing, a capsule network sends lower-level capsule
outputs to higher-level capsules with similar outputs—where the dot
product measures similarity of vector outputs.

The task of autonomous navigation is one of reinforcement learning. This papers
approach differs from previous similar ones that used convolutional networks
and had intrinsic rewards to deal with sparse reward scenarios. Without
intrinsic rewards, convolutional networks are unable to explore effectively.
But the  authors show that capsule networks are able to explore without
intrinsic rewards. Compared to Intrinsic Curiosity Module (ICM) and
Depth-Augmented Curiosity Module (D-ACM), the authors networks are much smaller
and are faster to train a single step. Further, they perform better in the
densely textured simulated environments, though perform poorly when in sparsely
textured environments.

[1]: https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.03181
[2]: https://arxiv.org/

<!--
spell-checker:words arxiv Culurciello convolutional 
-->
